README.md, before:

In this document, you will learn how to deploy E2 simulator on lab K8s cluster with your own change.

## Prepare in Gitlab

Create a branch for yourself by clicking on `plus` button as following:

![alt text](docs/images/create_branch.png)

Name your branch according to the format `oran-student-???`, make sure `???` is the same as your username to access devvm as well as your namespace created in Kubernetese. For example, my K8s namespace is `tuan`, and my username to devvm is also `tuan`, then my branch name is `oran-student-tuan`.

![alt text](docs/images/name_your_branch.png)

Now at the left sidebar, go to `Build` -> `Pipelines` and click on `New pipeline`.

![alt text](docs/images/go_to_pipeline.png)


Select your own branch and run `New pipeline`.

![alt text](docs/images/run_pipeline.png)

After that, you should see this screen. When a job is running, you can click on it to see the detail.

![alt text](docs/images/running_jobs.png)

The detail of a job is like this:

![alt text](docs/images/job_details.png)

You need to wait until the job is done. If a job is succesful, you will see its message at the end of the terminal area, for example:

- A succesful build job

![alt text](docs/images/success_build_job.png)

- A succesful deploy job

![alt text](docs/images/success_deploy_job.png)

## Verify in lab Kubernetese

Once the deploy job succeeds in Gitlab, you open Lens and you should see the following:

- `Workloads` -> `Deployments`

![alt text](docs/images/k8s_deployment.png)

- `Workloads` -> `Pods`

![alt text](docs/images/k8s_pod.png)

- Pod details

![alt text](docs/images/pod_details.png)


## How to find ID corresponding to the E2 node simulated by E2sim

Click on the pod e2sim, and select to view its log.

![alt text](docs/images/view_log_e2sim.png)

You will see the RAN function ID registered by the E2sim:

![alt text](docs/images/ran_func_id_from_log.png)

Run the command `curl --location 'http://10.180.113.156:32137/v1/e2t/list'` in devvm terminal, you will get the list of connected E2 nodes.

![alt text](docs/images/connected_e2_nodes.png)

Commit message:

Update 2 files
- /README.md
- /docs/images/verify-ran-func-id.png

README.md, after:

In this document, you will learn how to deploy E2 simulator on lab K8s cluster with your own change.

## Prepare in Gitlab

Create a branch for yourself by clicking on `plus` button as following:

![alt text](docs/images/create_branch.png)

Name your branch according to the format `oran-student-???`, make sure `???` is the same as your username to access devvm as well as your namespace created in Kubernetese. For example, my K8s namespace is `tuan`, and my username to devvm is also `tuan`, then my branch name is `oran-student-tuan`.

![alt text](docs/images/name_your_branch.png)

Now at the left sidebar, go to `Build` -> `Pipelines` and click on `New pipeline`.

![alt text](docs/images/go_to_pipeline.png)


Select your own branch and run `New pipeline`.

![alt text](docs/images/run_pipeline.png)

After that, you should see this screen. When a job is running, you can click on it to see the detail.

![alt text](docs/images/running_jobs.png)

The detail of a job is like this:

![alt text](docs/images/job_details.png)

You need to wait until the job is done. If a job is succesful, you will see its message at the end of the terminal area, for example:

- A succesful build job

![alt text](docs/images/success_build_job.png)

- A succesful deploy job

![alt text](docs/images/success_deploy_job.png)

## Verify in lab Kubernetese

Once the deploy job succeeds in Gitlab, you open Lens and you should see the following:

- `Workloads` -> `Deployments`

![alt text](docs/images/k8s_deployment.png)

- `Workloads` -> `Pods`

![alt text](docs/images/k8s_pod.png)

- Pod details

![alt text](docs/images/pod_details.png)


## How to find ID corresponding to the E2 node simulated by E2sim

Click on the pod e2sim, and select to view its log.

![alt text](docs/images/view_log_e2sim.png)

You will see the RAN function ID registered by the E2sim, in this example, 3055.

![alt text](docs/images/ran_func_id_from_log.png)

Run the command `curl --location 'http://10.180.113.156:32137/v1/e2t/list'` in devvm terminal, you will get the list of connected E2 nodes.

![alt text](docs/images/connected_e2_nodes.png)

Then use the command `curl --location 'http://10.180.113.156:32137/v1/nodeb/<pass-e2-node-id-here>'` to verify if its RAN function ID is the one registered by your E2 node. 

![alt text](docs/images/verify-ran-func-id.png)

In the above screenshot, it is 2531, so you need to check other E2 node ids until you get 3055.
